---
layout: post
title:  "How to start in HackTheBox"
description: "Learning bash with HackTheBox, creating directories and scanning with Nmap all the machines."
date:   2019-03-21
image:  htb.jpg
tags:   [Hacking, Guides, Bash, Linux]
---

HackTheBox it is a testing environment where we offer certain machines with vulnerabilities to which we can access by vpn.   
After exploiting these vulnerabilities we can access the system and get the flags, which are 2 hashes, one of the user (user.txt) and another of the administrator (root.txt).  
In other words, it is the perfect place to learn hacking.  

This tutorial is not for beginners, it is specially directed to a public with basic knowledge in computer security.  
In this first article I do not intend to explain what is normally detailed in blogs with topics of initiation in HackTheBox.  
Today I will explain an easy and practical way to start a scan to all HackTheBox machines.
We start by creating our file "/etc/hosts".  

{% highlight markdown %}
10.10.10.103 sizzle.htb
10.10.10.109 vault.htb
10.10.10.111 frolic.htb
10.10.10.112 bighead.htb
10.10.10.113 redcross.htb
10.10.10.116 conceal.htb
10.10.10.117 irked.htb
10.10.10.119 lightweight.htb
10.10.10.120 chaos.htb
10.10.10.121 help.htb
10.10.10.122 ctf.htb
10.10.10.123 friendzone.htb
10.10.10.124 flujab.htb
10.10.10.125 querier.htb
10.10.10.127 fortune.htb
10.10.10.128 hackback.htb
10.10.10.130 arkham.htb
10.10.10.150 curling.htb
10.10.10.152 netmon.htb
10.10.10.153 teacher.htb

{% endhighlight %}

After this by means of a FOR cycle in bash, I go through the newly created file and create a folder for each line taking into account only the hostname that is written in the file.  

{% highlight shell %}
pwd
--> /root/Desktop/HackTheBox/Operations/
for dir in $(cat MachinesHTB.txt | cut -d" " -f2); do mkdir ./$dir; done
{% endhighlight %}

Now that we have our folders created, we proceed to enumerate each machine with nmap and export the result in each folder, to do this we must do another FOR cycle in bash.  
For each tour we access the folder with name (Hostname) and perform a scan to the Hostname that corresponds to each one.  

{% highlight shell %}
for dir in $(cat MachinesHTB.txt | cut -d" " -f2); do cd /root/Desktop/HackTheBox/Operations/$dir && nmap -sV -F -T4 $dir -oN FirtScan.nmap; done
{% endhighlight %}  

Ready  
If you want to learn more about how to make scans with Nmap, I invite you to visit the following [blog](https://hackingprofessional.github.io/Security/Enumerando-puertos-con-nmap/).
